The political situation for the game is based on the political situation for the rebuilding of Jerusalem (Ezra/Nehemiah era, which is usually linked to the year 538 BCE).  The Biblical account goes like this (again, broad strokes), from before it starts to after it ends:

1. Israel is down to just the Southern kingdom (just 2 out of 12 tribes: Judah and Benjamin, and part of Levi, though they're usually not counted among the 12). The Northern kingdom has been destroyed by Assyria some time before (c. 722-721 BCE).  Note there is some cultural memory of the kingdom there, held onto by a group called the Samaritans.
2. Israel itself has been going through a sort of moral downfall, exemplified by a series of increasingly horrible kings (not to say that the general populace isn't also guilty); note there was a nontrivial exception (Josiah and his era).  Divine judgment causes them to start losing some wars with Babylon (which has already consumed Assyria).
3. Eventually Israel itself is completely consumed by Babylon (c. 587 BCE, under Nebuchadnezzar) and Jerusalem is sacked.  The entire populace is carted off and sold into slavery, as was the Babylonian empire-building practice.
4. A few decades later, Babylon itself has been conquered by the Persians (ignore the Medes for now), and their emperor Cyrus decides to rebuild Jerusalem (c. 597 BCE, but there are several later dates you could choose for this; see stage 5).  The Biblical account credits God for his mercy on His chosen people, and therefore influencing Cyrus to allow the reconstruction.  The secular account typically Cyrus is either "trying to build up support among his people" or is just "a really great guy."  Seriously!  This is what they say.  Anyway.
5. Several expeditions go to Jerusalem, across several decades, gradually increasing in size, complexity and sophistication.  They rebuild it (walls, temple, and all the less-often-mentioned city bits as well).
6. The rebuilders face a variety of sources of resistance: Samaritans (and other locals) who are jealous of their new city; the government (who fears too much Jewish autonomy); and their own divided focus (see, e.g., Haggai, a prophetic account which is the oral equivalent of shaming people into getting back to work).
7. Eventually the Greeks (c. 336-323 BCE; Alexander the Great, you've heard of him) rise up, go hog-wild on conquering, and swallow up Persia pretty early.  This includes Jerusalem.  This is not great for the Jews, especially toward the end (see, e.g., Antiochus IV and his behavior viz-a-viz the Temple).
8. The Jews rise up against the Greeks successfully (c. 164 BCE; this is Maccabee time, and the origins of Hannukah) and expel a lot of the enforced Hellenistic culture.
9. The Romans take over Israel (along with most of the western world) and this is again not great for the Jews.
10. Jesus is born, and at this point, Jewish and Christian accounts diverge greatly in their emotional response.

The period I'm interested in is roughly steps 3-8, with 1 and 2 in there for background and 9 and 10 in there for completeness.  The characters' plots will be centered around the rebuilding of "Jerusalem" (really, a renamed analogue).  They will be "Persian" citizens at first, but gradually re-acquire their own identity.  Old people clearly remember the horrors of the "Babylonian" invasion and their old homes, while the new people have just heard stories of the way things used to be.  Eventually "Greece" will overwhelm "Persia," be much harsher overlords than the "Persians" were, and the "Maccabees" will have to organize themselves and kick "Greece" out of their nation.

Now with all that said, in order to tell this story, I need a setting that's more familiar to me (and the target demographic) than the Ancient Near East, because I need to fill the world with mundane details that I understand.  Also, if I add a few fantastic elements, I can take some liberties with the details (this isn't a history!) in order to keep it more focused on the point.  This is fiction after all.

The primary change (aside from all the names, and the maps) is that the major players will act a bit more like European countries during the industrial revolution (since I understand that setting a bit better), in that they are ruthlessly capitalist.  Honestly I just don't know what much about what it was like to like in ancient Persia.  How did people feel about the king?  About their country?  About each other?  What sorts of goals did they have?  I don't know (and Google gave me really boring answers), but I can make reasonable guesses if I make the setting more modern.

Also changing (and this is related to the above) is that there is an *actual* industrial revolution going on.  The real IR was powered by the invention of steam (and a lot of other things at the same time, but largely the idea of harnessing steam power). Steam works great!  But I'm bored of it, and so is everyone else.  So, my hypothetical power source is "alchemy," which is the idea that "structure" is literally a power source, and there is a way of releasing and harnessing that power, and (just like in the real world), the immediate reaction to this discovery is to make lots and lots of money.

So you see the same sorts of behavior as in the real world.  Traditional ways of life collapsed in favor of industrial efficiencies, a new class of "wage slaves" emerges, countries becomes *very* interested in colonies (for new workforce, new markets, and new resources), and of course people fighting back against this.  Wars erupt for the same reasons they always did, but corporations are more prominent players than before.

The last major change, and this is just for narrative reasons, is that the timescale will be shrunk dramatically.  Originally, the steps above comprise roughly 400 years, but since the story is really about individual characters as archetypes, it helps if we're talking about the same people the whole time.  So this will all be time-compressed, possibly to about 30 or 40 years, so that the young people who re-settled the land with their hands become, by the end of things, late-middle-aged people with authority and experience.

So there's the broad strokes.  There is a separate document on the industrial revolution itself, and another on alchemy (and how it becomes a "magic system" for the game, aiding gameplay).  Another document talks about each of the political entities in specific, both how they are in the game and what they're inspired by in the real accounts.  And several other documents will talk about the characters who live in this world.